Yuji is a young man of average height and appears to have a slender build when wearing baggy clothing, but actually has a lean and muscular physique. He also has relatively large light brown eyes and spiky pink hair (brownish blonde in the manga) that's styled in an undercut fashion. When becoming the vessel for Sukuna after eating his finger, he gains a second pair of eyes that only open when Sukuna controls his body along with his many markings.
At the start of the series, Yuji wore a light-colored hooded jacket, high-cuffed black pants, and white shoes. However, in the anime, his pants were denim, and his shoes were bright red. When Yuji enrolled into the Tokyo Metropolitan Curse Technical College, he began wearing his version of the uniform; a black long sleeve shirt resembling a gakuran over a red hoodie, black pants, and red shoes.
He gains a noticeable scar between his two eyes and a smaller scar on his left labial commissure of the mouth during the Shibuya Incident. Both scars were caused by Mahito; the first one was inflicted when the cursed spirit surprise-attacked him with a blade on his fist,[3] and the second one was inflicted when Yuji battled him after his transformation.[4]
He lost the second pair of eyes that only open when Sukuna controls his body along with his many markings after the latter transferred to Megumi Fushiguro as his new vessel.[5]
Yuji is a fair person who truly cares for not only his comrades but anyone he views as people with their own wills, despite how deep or shallow his connection to them is. He highly commends "the value of life," and to this end, he will ensure that others receive a "proper death". Because of this, he believes that it is morally unethical for him to take another human life, and tries to avoid any possibility of doing so unless as a last resort.
He is also not without his more energetic and outgoing traits. Such as his frequent comedic moments where he was seen alongside Nobara gushing about Tokyo and his eagerness to train with Gojo or even when entertaining both Junpei and his mother. Yuji is also highly passionate whenever he's focused on achieving certain goals and being quite stubborn when confronted about them, such as when Yaga questioned why Yuji wanted to become a sorcerer. He is also quite naïve due to his inexperience in the world of cursed spirits and jujutsu sorcerers, but is shown to be a quick learner, capable of adapting to his surroundings and picking up how to use cursed energy quickly.
Although usually composed, good-natured and friendly, Yuji can be angered quickly in the face of pure malice after witnessing firsthand the cruelty that curses were capable of, particularly Mahito's inhuman exploitation of Junpei. Yuji felt so profoundly disgusted that he felt a genuine desire to kill for the first time in his life and has a very intense yet focused hatred towards the cursed spirit.
One of Yuji's defining traits is his willingness to sacrifice himself for others, triggered by his grandfather's last words to him to die surrounded by others. When he and Megumi were under the threat of being killed by a curse, Yuji impulsively swallowed Sukuna's finger to exorcise the curse and save them despite having met Megumi for the first time on that day.
Overall Skill Level: Yuji is one of Tokyo Jujutsu High's most powerful and talented students. Satoru Gojo places him on the same level of potential as Yuta Okkotsu and Kinji Hakari, the three students who he believes will surpass his strength.[6] Despite having no connections to the jujutsu world before a few months prior to the Shibuya Incident, Yuji is able to contend with and defeat Grade 1 and Special Grade curses. Yuji was gifted with superhuman physical abilities which he masterfully combines with his cursed energy. Yuji is also able to contain Sukuna with no ill effects, which allows him to perceive the shape of souls. This enables him to harm Mahito, whose control over the shape of his soul otherwise renders him immune to injury.[7]
Immense Strength: Yuji is quite powerful even without the usage of cursed energy, as he can destroy walls with ease,[8] throw a lead ball with enough force to bend a soccer goalpost,[9] and even throw a car.[10] As powerful as he is without cursed energy, especially when it comes to fighting, his exceptional strength can often be augmented to further levels with the usage of cursed energy, the Divergent Fist technique, and Black Flash, allowing him to exorcise cursed spirits. His unique strength has also been compared to Kento Nanami, a Grade 1 sorcerer. He can even harm Hanami and Choso, two curses who have remarkable durability and toughness with the former being near-impossible to damage. During his fight with Sukuna, Yuji jumped twenty stories from two buildings to reach Sukuna after the latter took control over Megumi's body. Also in his fight with Sukuna, Yuji was able to kick a massive chunk of rubble towards Sukuna, momentarily stopping him.
Immense Speed and Reflexes: Yuji is shown to have great speed and can finish a 50-meter track within 3 seconds, implying he can run at speeds of 60.12km/h (37.3mph).[11] He's also been shown to dodge the attacks of all five opposing sorcerers from the students from Kyoto Jujutsu High who tried to murder him. He has been shown to be fast enough to evade Choso's Piercing Blood, which travels at the speed of sound, proving he has superb reflexes. During Yuji and Maki's fight against Sukuna while possessing Megumi, Yuji was able to keep up with their magnificent speed and reflexes while being grievously wounded from his previous battle.
Immense Durability: Yuji's durability surpasses the average sorcerer. He was able to continuously take hits from Choso during their fight and even Piercing Blood, an attack moving at the speed of sound didn't pierce Yuji immediately. He was also able to withstand numerous attacks from Mahito in his Instant Spirit Body of Distorted Killing form and continue fighting. After Sukuna took control over Megumi's body, he punched Yuji through multiple buildings and Yuji survived that, and afterwards was able to fight him and even survive Sukuna relentlessly attacking him with Cleave and Dismantle and keep fighting him with Maki's help.
Immense Stamina: Fitting his other superhuman capabilities, Yuji possesses a large amount of stamina and has often been shown continuing to fight despite grievous injuries for longer periods of time without rest, such as having his hand severed and his fingers disintegrated when battling the Finger Bearer, allowing for Megumi to escape with Nobara. He was also able to resist several poisonous stab wounds from when he tried to stop Junpei Yoshino from hurting anyone at his school. His incredible stamina is especially shown afterwards when he sustained grievous injuries from Mahito but was able to continue attacking.
Proficient Learner: Yuji is a curious person and an earnest student. He is also good at progressing - being quick at Satoru's Movie Appreciation Training, and realizing Aoi Todo's advice quickly. According to Akutami, he is the best at cooking among the first years trio. He was able to master using martial arts alongside cursed energy and honed it to a level with which he can take on Special Grade curses. He was even able to use Black Flash four times in a row a short time after he had even learnt of its existence.